CART 263-2019
Project 2
Title: Conversations with Gawd
Michael Watts

Conversations with Gawd is a reflection on the over consumption of anything, be it social media, spirituality, or niceness. In relation to the article Something is wrong on the internet by James Bridle, I was struck at first that parents would simply leave their child in front of a screen as a form of entertainment. To endlessly watch anything seems problematic, especially if it is an impressionable small child. This has somehow become a societal norm and has replaced human contact or old fashion toys. I feel empathy towards parents that feel a screen is the solution to keeping their child at rest, but I have no idea what parenting is like so I understand that the task is overwhelming and any solution may be taken for a moments peace. All I can think of is something called Nannytube, which basically replaces the human with an endless stream of videos. Perhaps this could be a good streaming channel to create, something like Netflix but strictly for kids. Content would be easier to monitor and will not get mixed in with the garbage from algorithmic chance.

This project takes the idea of overconsumption and mixes it with the problems of how algorithms function. Although I don’t have complex algorithms implemented in this experience, I have designed the experience where what seems like a gentle conversation with some almighty entity eventually disintegrates into edgy-er questioning. I didn’t want to get too edgy or offensive, but try to straddle the line or lean in that direction. For each response there is a random image that appears from Flickr. To my surprise during trials when I answered “mom” to one of the questions, a selfie of a naked mom appeared. A mother took this picture and tagged herself #mom while naked in the shower. Does she know that anyone has access to it? Now a days, everyone is half naked on social media so it’s no surprise. I did not expect this from Flickr but more from Tumblr. This is exactly the randomness that reflects the article by Bridle. My best friend also played the game but lied on all his answers because he thought maybe the data would be sent to some corporate advertisers. Although he knows I would never set that up (unless Zuckerberg payed me millions, yah right) I was excited to hear of his reation because it showed me that people are uneasy about divulging personal information online.

In the experience I want to project the experience that too much of anything is harmful. Too much Gawd is harmful. Divulging too much of yourself online (#mom) can be harmful. Is it necessary? And now these algorithms seem to force feed us more of what we consume therefore narrowing our focus and peripheral vision, which I don’t quite understand the logic. Why not do the opposite so we can expand? Be it Youtube, facebook, or whatever, they are partially to blame for implementing a system like this that favours the corporations and data gluttons. How can we shift this line of thinking and guide users towards other options of online content? I think making people aware is the first step and then creating new options that are transparent for consumers. My big dream is that people have the option to share their data. And if you chose to share your data… you get paid. Maybe for my project 3?
