CART 263-2019
Project 1
Title: BAUHAUS your life
Michael Watts

This year marks the 100th anniversary of the legendary Bauhaus that was established in 1919 in Weimar, Germany by Walter Gropius and had it's doors shut down in 1933 by the Nazis. Today, our concepts of design are deeply rooted in the philosophy's of Bauhaus and the rebellious minds of its founders. I have been studying the work of Bauhaus for several years and have even been invited to collaborate in a homage event in Montreal. I felt that this project was a good opportunity to create something simple and playful with a clean aesthetic.

BAUHAUS your life is an homage to Bauhaus in a simple and interactive experience using a collage-like approach that has no end in sight. The story of Sisyphus was the base of inspiration for the user experience. Meaning, the user is cursed to repeat the same activity and that never quite makes it to the end, because there is no end. Perhaps this is not as punishing as the story of Sisyphus, but rather the user is given the joyful opportunity to lose themselves in a repetitive and hypnotic art jeux.

I chose to use the Bauhaus Building in Dessau as a backdrop to give the user a visual context of what Bauhaus looked like. I’m certain many are not aware of the influence of Bauhaus but this building is a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site, so definitely worthy of attention.

The user is introduced to the experience by the futuristic dancer from Oskar Schlemmer’s 1922 Triadic Ballet for Bauhaus. The image provides instructions to the user and once clicked it does a little animated dance and then fades into oblivion. To accentuate the dance a bell chimes and this resonates to clear the air for design inspiration. Now the user knows that they can drag the various shapes into place and feel like a true designer. These shapes are signature symbols of Bauhaus that can be repeated and layered in any way to create an endless variation of graphic art. The shapes are not fixed once the user places them, so they can be moved again and again. However, there is a catch to all this given the Sisyphean thematic. Each shape has a special surprise quality connected to them. I feel that surprise elements are important in theatre and game making so this is why I chose to keep them out of the instructions. Discovering something is much more rewarding.  The bauhaus word will random fall away after a certain number are placed on the canvas. The same concept is rendered to the triangles except it ascends to the sky. For the blue circle, when you click on the circles after dragging them they will explode. And then when you click on the ex, they will fade away. Finally, the red square will trigger the music to start. Mein Berlin (Aus "An und aus") by Iwan Frank (and Die Lieder von Walter Kollo in Originalaufnahmen) will the soundscape for the design jeux, giving the user a musical experience of the times. The idea of having the design work continuously destroyed is symbolic of the myth and metaphor of Sisyphus, and perhaps an artist’s life reality.
